USAGE.md, before:

# Create GHG summaries for selected countries from CRF Reporting tables.

To alleviate examination and comparison of GHG net emissions in reporting countries
eughgsummary contains three scripts to collect and organise data from annual CRF Reporting tables
(i.e. "official excel files") as country by country and year by year excel files and sheets. 

Currently it is possible to gather data concerning LULUCF land use categories,
harvested wood products and LULUCF summmary. The levels used are the one that are
common to all parties. The collected data is provided as is, no further analysis or examination is done.

## euco2.py
The scripts collects net emissions from the Table4.A to Table4.F. This amounts to data for LULUCF
land use, land-use change and forestry. The output is a single file of all net emissions collected
and one file of net emissions collected for each of the Table4 A-F.

The command line arguments are:
+ -d, The main directory for the CRF Reporting tables. It is assumed the excel files are
      organised in this directory by countries denoted with three letter acronyms.
+ -s, Start year of the inventory.
+ -e, End year of the inventory.

To select countries one of the following must be used:
+ --eu, EU countries.
+ --euplus, EU plus GBR, ISL and NOR
+ -a, All reporting countries.
+ -c, List of country acronyms separated by spaces.

Example with EU countries and GBR, ISL and NOR. The CRF Reporting tables are in /data/d4/projects/khk/CRF_vertailu/
for each country and include years 1990-2019.
+ python euco2.py -d /data/d4/projects/khk/CRF_vertailu/ --euplus  -s 1990 -e 2019

## euco2hwp.py
The script collects net emissions Harvested wood products (HWP) data for Total HWP, Total HWP Domestic
and Total HWP Exported from the Table4.Gs1. Note a country may have reported Total HWP only.
Whether Apporoach A or B is used is not explicitely mentioned. The output is a single
file with three sheets for HWP net emissions.

The command line arguments are:
+ -d, The main directory for the CRF Reporting tables. It is assumed the excel files are
      organised in this directory by countries denoted with three letter acronyms.
+ -s, Start year of the inventory.
+ -e, End year of the inventory.

To select countries one of the following must be used:
+ --eu, EU countries.
+ --euplus, EU plus GBR, ISL and NOR
+ -a, All reporting countries.
+ -c, List of country acronyms separated by spaces.

## lulcrftotal.py
The script collects net emissions from Table 4 for Total LLULUCF, Forest land, Cropland, Grassland,
Wetlands, Settlements, Other land, HWP and Other (rows A-F). The unit is CO2eq, i.e. CH4 and N2O are
changed into CO2eq with their Global warming potentials (GWP). The result is a single file
containing sheets for items collected from Table 4.

The command line arguments are:
+ -d, The main directory for the CRF Reporting tables. It is assumed the excel files are
      organised in this directory by countries denoted with three letter acronyms.
+ -s, Start year of the inventory.
+ -e, End year of the inventory.

To select countries one of the following must be used:
+ --eu, EU countries.
+ --euplus, EU plus GBR, ISL and NOR
+ -a, All reporting countries.
+ -c, List of country acronyms separated by spaces,

To define GWP to be used:
+ --GWP, possible values are AR4 (default, used in GHG) or AR5.

## Python virtual environment

The requirements.txt  contains information for pip to install python packages
required by eughgsummary. First, create python virtual environment and then
install the packages:
+ pip  install -r requirements.txt

You may need to tell the proxy server for pip.

Commit message:

Updated examples to slurm file

USAGE.md, after:

# Create GHG summaries for selected countries from CRF Reporting tables.

To alleviate examination and comparison of GHG net emissions in reporting countries
eughgsummary contains three scripts to collect and organise data from annual CRF Reporting tables
(i.e. "official excel files") as country by country and year by year excel files and sheets. 

Currently it is possible to gather data concerning LULUCF land use categories,
harvested wood products and LULUCF summmary. The levels used are the one that are
common to all parties. The collected data is provided as is, no further analysis or examination is done.

## euco2.py
The scripts collects net emissions from the Table4.A to Table4.F. This amounts to data for LULUCF
land use, land-use change and forestry. The output is a single file of all net emissions collected
and one file of net emissions collected for each of the Table4 A-F.

The command line arguments are:
+ -d, The main directory for the CRF Reporting tables. It is assumed the excel files are
      organised in this directory by countries denoted with three letter acronyms.
+ -s, Start year of the inventory.
+ -e, End year of the inventory.

To select countries one of the following must be used:
+ --eu, EU countries.
+ --euplus, EU plus GBR, ISL and NOR
+ -a, All reporting countries.
+ -c, List of country acronyms separated by spaces.

## euco2hwp.py
The script collects net emissions Harvested wood products (HWP) data for Total HWP, Total HWP Domestic
and Total HWP Exported from the Table4.Gs1. Note a country may have reported Total HWP only.
Whether Apporoach A or B is used is not explicitely mentioned. The output is a single
file with three sheets for HWP net emissions.

The command line arguments are:
+ -d, The main directory for the CRF Reporting tables. It is assumed the excel files are
      organised in this directory by countries denoted with three letter acronyms.
+ -s, Start year of the inventory.
+ -e, End year of the inventory.

To select countries one of the following must be used:
+ --eu, EU countries.
+ --euplus, EU plus GBR, ISL and NOR
+ -a, All reporting countries.
+ -c, List of country acronyms separated by spaces.

## lulcrftotal.py
The script collects net emissions from Table 4 for Total LLULUCF, Forest land, Cropland, Grassland,
Wetlands, Settlements, Other land, HWP and Other (rows A-F). The unit is CO2eq, i.e. CH4 and N2O are
changed into CO2eq with their Global warming potentials (GWP). The result is a single file
containing sheets for items collected from Table 4.

The command line arguments are:
+ -d, The main directory for the CRF Reporting tables. It is assumed the excel files are
      organised in this directory by countries denoted with three letter acronyms.
+ -s, Start year of the inventory.
+ -e, End year of the inventory.

To select countries one of the following must be used:
+ --eu, EU countries.
+ --euplus, EU plus GBR, ISL and NOR
+ -a, All reporting countries.
+ -c, List of country acronyms separated by spaces,

To define GWP to be used:
+ --GWP, possible values are AR4 (default, used in GHG) or AR5.

## Examples

See `eughgsummary.slurm` for examples for each of the tree python scripts.
## Python virtual environment

The requirements.txt  contains information for pip to install python packages
required by eughgsummary. First, create python virtual environment and then
install the packages:
+ pip  install -r requirements.txt

You may need to tell the proxy server for `pip`.
